.\" OpenChange Project Libraries Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii CreateProfile.3
.\"
.TH CREATEPROFILE 3 2007-06-16 "OpenChange libmapi 0.6" "OpenChange Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
CreateProfile \- Create a profile in the MAPI profile database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmapi/libmapi.h>
.sp
.BI "enum MAPISTATUS CreateProfile(const char *" profile ", const char *" username ", const char *" password ", uint32_t flags);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function creates a profile named
.IR profile
in the MAPI profile database and sets the specified username in that profile.

This function may also set the password. If the
.IR flags
include
.BI OC_PROFILE_NOPASSWORD
then the password will not be set. Otherwise, the specified
.IR password 
argument will also be saved to the profile.

Note that profile information (including the password, if saved to the profile)
is stored unencrypted.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns
.BI MAPI_E_SUCCESS 
on success, otherwise -1. The last error can be retrieved using
.B GetLastError().
Possible MAPI error codes are:

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_INITIALIZED":
MAPI subsystem has not been initialized. The MAPI subsystem must be initialized prior
to creating a profile - see 
.B MAPIInitialize().

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_ENOUGH_RESOURCES": 
MAPI subsystem failed to allocate the necessary resources to operate properly

.BR "MAPI_E_NO_SUPPORT":
An error was encountered while setting the MAPI profile attributes in
the database.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR DeleteProfile (3),
.BR SetDefaultProfile (3),
.BR GetDefaultProfile (3),
.BR ChangeProfilePassword (3),
.BR GetProfileTable (3),
.BR ProcessNetworkProfile (3),
.BR GetLastError (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
