.\" OpenChange Project Libraries Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii GetDefaultFolder.3
.\"
.TH GETDEFAULTFOLDER 3 2007-06-01 "OpenChange libmapi 0.4" "OpenChange Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
GetDefaultFolder \- Retrieves the folder id for the specified default folder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmapi/libmapi.h>
.sp
#define	olFolderTopInformationStore      1
#define	olFolderDeletedItems             3
#define	olFolderOutbox                   4
#define	olFolderSentMail                 5
#define	olFolderInbox                    6
#define	olFolderCalendar                 9
#define	olFolderContacts                10
#define	olFolderJournal                 11
#define	olFolderNotes                   12
#define	olFolderTasks                   13
#define	olFolderDrafts                  16
#define	olPublicFoldersAllPublicFolders 18
#define	olFolderConflicts               19
#define	olFolderSyncIssues              20
#define	olFolderLocalFailures           21
#define	olFolderServerFailures          22
#define	olFolderJunk                    23
.sp
.BI "enum MAPISTATUS GetDefaultFolder(mapi_object_t *" obj_store ", mapi_id_t *" fid ", const uint32_t olFolder);"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function searches for the default folder specified in
.B olFolder
and returns the associated folder id in
.B fid.


.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns
.BI MAPI_E_SUCCESS 
on success, otherwise -1. Developers should call
.B GetLastError()
to retrieve the latest MAPI error code. Possible
MAPI error codes are:

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_INITIALIZED": 
MAPI subsystem has not been initialized

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND":
The specified folder could not be found or not is not yet supported.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MAPIInitialize (3),
.BR OpenMsgStore (3),
.BR GetLastError (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
