.\" OpenChange Project Libraries Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mapidump.3
.\"
.TH MAPIDUMP 3 2007-04-23 "OpenChange libmapi 0.2" "OpenChange Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mapidump API \- dump MAPI data and object on stdout
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmapi/libmapi.h>
.sp
.BI "void mapidump_SPropValue(struct SPropValue " lpProp ", const char *" sep ");"
.BI "void mapidump_SPropTagArray(struct SPropTagArray *" proptags ");"
.BI "void mapidump_SRow(struct SRow *" aRow ", const char *" sep ");"
.BI "void mapidump_Recipients(const char **" usernames ", struct SRowSet *" rowset ", struct FlagList *" flaglist ");"
.BI "void mapidump_message(struct mapi_SPropValue_array *" properties ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions dumps MAPI data structures and high level objects on stdout. The
.IR sep
parameters describes a parameter used in output format.

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
