.\" OpenChange Project Libraries Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ProcessNetworkProfile.3
.\"
.TH PROCESSNETWORKPROFILE 3 2007-04-23 "OpenChange libmapi 0.2" "OpenChange Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ProcessNetworkProfile \- Process a full and automated MAPI profile creation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmapi/libmapi.h>
.sp
.BI "enum MAPISTATUS ProcessNetworkProfile(struct mapi_session *" session ", const char *" username ", mapi_callback_t " callback ", void *" private ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function process a full and automated MAPI profile creation using the
.IR username
pattern passed as a paramter. The functions takes a callback parameter
which will be called when the username checked matches several
usernames. Private data needed by the callback can be supplied using
the
.IR private
data pointer.

.BI "typedef int (*mapi_callback_t) callback(struct SRowSet *, void *);"

The callback returns the
.IR SRow 
element
.BR index
within the
.IR SRowSet
stuture. If the user cancels the operation the callback return value should be
.IR SRowSet->cRows
or superior.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns
.BI MAPI_E_SUCCESS 
on success, otherwise -1. The last error can be retrieved using
.B GetLastError().
Possible MAPI error codes are:

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_INITIALIZED":
MAPI subsystem has not been initialized

.BR "MAPI_E_END_OF_SESSION":
The NSPI session has not been initialized

.BR "MAPI_E_CANCEL_USER":
The user has aborted the operation 

.BR "MAPI_E_INVALID_PARAMETER":
The
.IR profile
parameter was not set properly.

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND": 
One of the mandatory field was not found during the profile creation process.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR OpenProfileStore (3),
.BR MAPILogonProvider (3),
.BR GetLastError (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
