.\" OpenChange Project Libraries Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii QueryRows.3
.\"
.TH QUERYROWS 3 2007-04-23 "OpenChange libmapi 0.2" "OpenChange Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
QueryRows \- Returns a Rowset with the properties returned by the server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmapi/libmapi.h>
.sp
.BI "enum MAPISTATUS QueryRows(mapi_object_t *" obj_table ", uint16_t "  rowcount ", enum tbl_advance " flag_advance ", struct SRowSet *" rowset ");"

enum tbl_advance {
	TBL_ADVANCE = 0,
	TBL_NOADVANCE = 1
}

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function returns in 
.IR rowset
the set of properties returned by the server for the
.IR obj_table
object. The number of rows to retrieve can be specified in
.IR rowcount .
If QueryRows is call recursively,
.IR flag_advance
should be set to
.B TBL_ADVANCE
so the index automatically increases from last 
.IR rowcount .
Otherwise
.B TBL_NOADVANCE
should be used for a single QueryRows call.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns
.BI MAPI_E_SUCCESS
on success, otherwise -1. Developers should call
.B GetLastError()
to retrieve the latest MAPI error code. Possible MAPI error codes are:

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_INITIALIZED": 
MAPI subsystem has not been initialized

.BR "MAPI_E_CALL_FAILED": 
A network problem was encountered during the transaction

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR QueryColumns (3),
.BR SeekRow (3),
.BR GetLastError (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
