.\" OpenChange Project Libraries Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ResolveNames.3
.\"
.TH RESOLVENAMES 3 2007-04-23 "OpenChange libmapi 0.2" "OpenChange Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ResolveNames \- Resolve user names against the Windows Address Book Provider
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <libmapi/libmapi.h>
.sp
.BI "enum MAPISTATUS ResolveNames(const char **" usernames ", struct SPropTagArray *" proptag ", struct SRowSet **" rowset ", struct FlagList **" flaglist ", uint32_t " flags ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function resolves the number of recipients specified in usernames and fills both the
.IR proptag
array with the resolved names and 
.IR flaglist
structure with the complete set of usernames and their associated status. Possible flaglist values are:

.B MAPI_UNRESOLVED

.B MAPI_AMBIGUOUS

.B MAPI_RESOLVED

If the 
.IR flags 
parameter is set to
.B MAPI_UNICODE
then UNICODE
.IR MAPITAGS
can be used, otherwise only UTF8 encoded fields may be returned.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns
.BI MAPI_E_SUCCESS
on success, otherwise -1. Developers should call
.B GetLastError()
to retrieve the latest MAPI error code. Possible MAPI error codes are:

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_INITIALIZED":
MAPI subsystem has not been initialized

.BR "MAPI_E_SESSION_LIMIT":
No session has been opened on the provider

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_ENOUGH_RESOURCES": 
MAPI subsystem failed to allocate the necessary resources to operate properly

.BR "MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND":
No suitable profile database was found in the path pointed by 
.IR profiledb

.BR "MAPI_E_CALL_FAILED":
A network problem was encountered during the transaction

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR MAPILogonProvider (3),
.BR GetLastError (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
