.\" OpenChange Project Tools Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii exchange2mbox.1
.\"
.TH EXCHANGE2MBOX 1 2013-01-24 "OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT" "OpenChange Users' Manual"

.SH NAME
exchange2mbox \- Convert Exchange mailbox to mbox file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
exchange2mbox [-?|--help] [--usage] [-f|--database PATH] [-p|--profile PROFILE]
    [-P|--password PASSWORD] [-m|--mbox FILENAME] [-u|--update]
    [-d|--debuglevel LEVEL] [--dump-data]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
exchange2mbox provides a way to synchronize an Exchange mailbox with a
mbox file. The tool is developed so it only retrieves mails not already
stored in the message ID index database and reflects changes back to
the Exchange server if the local message copy are deleted.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B --database
.TP
.B -f
Set the path to the profile database to use

.TP
.B --profile
.TP
.B -p
Set the profile to use. If no profile is specified, exchange2mbox try
to retrieve the default profile in the database. If no default profile
has been set, exchange2mbox returns 
.B MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND .

.TP
.B --password
.TP
.B -P
Set the password for the profile to use. This can be omitted if the
password is stored in the profile.

.TP
.B --mbox
.TP
.B -m
Set the mbox file full path

.TP
.B --update
.TP
.B -u
Synchronize the local mbox file with the remote Exchange server mailbox.

.TP
.B --dump-data
Dump the hex data. This is only required for debugging or educational purposes.

.TP
.B --debuglevel LEVEL
.TP
.B -d
Set the debug level.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B Create/Update the mbox file and indexes within the profile database:
.nf
exchange2mbox
.fi

.B Update the Exchange mailbox and indexes according to the changes made to the mbox file.

.nf
exchange2mbox -u
.fi

.SH REMARKS
If no mbox file is specified, one will be automatically created in
.B $(HOME)/.openchange/mbox .
If you are using the default profile database path and have set a
default profile (using
.B mapiprofile --profile=profile_name -S
) you do not need to specify these parameters on the command line.

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>

Brad Hards <bradh at openchange dot org>
