.\" OpenChange Project Tools Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2008 Brad Hards
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii exchange2ical.1
.\"
.TH EXCHANGE2ICAL 1 2013-01-24 "OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT" "OpenChange Users' Manual"

.SH NAME
exchange2ical \- Convert Exchange calendar to ical file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
exchange2ical [-?V] [-?|--help] [--usage] [-f|--database=STRING] [-p|--profile=STRING] 
	[-P|--password=STRING] [-i|--icalsync=STRING] [-o|--filename=STRING] [-R|--range=STRING]
        [-d|--debuglevel=STRING] [--dump-data] [-V|--version]

.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
exchange2ical provides a way to extract appointments from an Exchange calendar
into the ical format. The ical is provided on stdout by default if the filename is not specified.

.SH OPTIONS

.B --database
.TP
.B -f
Set the path to the profile database to use

.TP
.B --profile
.TP
.B -p
Set the profile to use. If no profile is specified, exchange2ical tries
to retrieve the default profile in the database. If no default profile
has been set, exchange2ical returns 
.B MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND .

.TP
.B --password
.TP
.B -P
Specify the password for the profile to use. This can be omitted if the
password is stored in the profile.

.TP
.B --icalsync
.TP
.B -i
Specify an icalendar file to be used to sync back to exchange.

.TP
.B --filename
.TP
.B -o
Specify the filename for the icalendar output.  The specified file will be 
overwritten with the new icalendar. If this is omitted, stdout will be used 
by default.

.TP
.B --range
.TP
.B -r
Specify the range of exchange appointments to be converted into an icalendar.  
If there are no events, whos start date is within the specified range, 
an icalendar with no vevents will be returned.
.B Format: MM/DD/YYYY-MM/DD/YYYY

.TP
.B --dump-data
Dump the hex data. This is only required for debugging or educational purposes.

.TP
.B --debuglevel
.TP
.B -d
Set the debug level.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B Extract appointments from the Exchange calendar:
.nf
exchange2ical > appointments.ical
.fi
.B Extract appointments from the Exchange calendar to a specified path
.nf
exchange2ical --filename=/path/to/file.ics
.fi
.B Extract only appointments which begin from June 25 2008 to July 26 2009
.nf
exchange2ical --range=06/25/2008-07/26/2009
.fi

.SH REMARKS
If you are using the default profile database path and have set a
default profile (using
.B mapiprofile --profile=profile_name -S
) you do not need to specify these parameters on the command line.

.SH AUTHOR
exchange2ical was written by Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>

This man page was written by Brad Hards <bradh at openchange dot org>
