.\" OpenChange Project Tools Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Julien Kerihuel;
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Brad Hards;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mapiprofile.1
.\"
.TH MAPIPROFILE 1 2013-01-24 "OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT" "OpenChange Users' Manual"

.SH NAME
mapiprofile \- administer OpenChange MAPI Profiles databases

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
mapiprofile [-?GSnEcrlV] [-?|--help] [--usage] [-L|--ldif=PATH] [-G|--getdefault] [-S|--default]
	[-n|--newdb] [-f|--database=PATH] [-P|--profile=PROFILE] [-I|--address=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx]
	[-M|--workstation=WORKSTATION_NAME] [-D|--domain=DOMAIN] [-R|--realm=REALM] [-E|--encrypt]
	[-v|--exchange-version=2000] [-u|--username=USERNAME] [-C|--language=LANGUAGE]
	[-s|--pattern=USERNAME] [-p|--password=PASSWORD] [--nopass] [-c|--create] [-r|--delete]
	[-R|--rename=STRING] [-l|--list] [--listlangs] [--dump] [-a|--attr=VALUE] [--dump-data]
	[-d|--debuglevel=LEVEL] [--getfqdn] [-k|--kerberos={yes|no}] [-V|--version]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
mapiprofile is a command line tool designed to provide administrative
support for OpenChange MAPI profiles. A profile in this context represents a
single user's connection to a server. It can be thought of as a user's account
information stored on the client side. Most OpenChange utilities make use of
the profile information stored in the local profile database, often by referring
to the name of the profile. In addition, because most users only have a single
account, it is possible to designate one profile as the default profile. If a
profile is not specified, other utilities will use the default profile (if any)
to establish a connection.

mapiprofile is designed so it also provides sample code for developers interested in
adding OpenChange MAPI profile support to their applications.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B --newdb
.TP
.B -n
Create a new database.

.TP
.B --create
.TP
.B -c
Create a new profile in the database.

.TP
.B --delete
.TP
.B -r
Delete a profile from the database.

.TP
.B --rename PROFILE
.TP
.B -R
Rename a profile in the database

.TP
.B --default
.TP
.B -S
Set the default profile in the database.

.TP
.B --getdefault
.TP
.B -G
Get the default profile name from the database.

.TP
.B --dump
Display information about a specific profile from information stored in the database.

.TP
.B --list
.TP
.B -l
List existing profiles in the database.

.TP
.B --listlangs
List the available languages. These can be used to specify the
language name (--language) when creating a profile.



.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B --database DATABASE
.TP
.B -f
Path to the profile database. If no path database is specified then the default one will be used
.B $HOME/.openchange/profiles.ldb

.TP
.B --ldif LDIF
.TP
.B -L
Path to the LDIF files. If no LDIF directory is specified then the default one set at compilation time will be used. This option is only used when creating a new profile database.

.TP
.B --profile PROFILE
.TP
.B -p
Set the profile name to use (e.g. the profile to create or delete, or to dump information about).

.TP
.B --address IP_ADDR|FQDN
.TP
.B -I
Set the Exchange server IP address or fully qualified domain name.

.TP
.B --workstation WORKSTATION
.TP
.B -M
Sets the local computer name.

.TP
.B --domain DOMAIN
.TP
.B -D
Set the Windows domain name.

.TP
.B --encrypt
.TP
.B -E
Require the connection to be encrypted. This is normally required only on Exchange 2010
(and will presumably also be required on future versions), but may be used on Exchange 2003
and Exchange 2007.

.TP
.B --exchange-version
.TP
.B -v
Specify which version of the protocol to use. The reasonable options are 2000, 2003/2007 and 2010.
2000 means use EcDoConnect (0x0) / EcDoRpc (0x2) RPC calls, 2003 or 2007 means use
EcDoConnectEx (0xA) / EcDoRpcExt2 (0xB) RPC calls, and 2010 means use EcDoConnectEx (0xA) / EcDoRpcExt2
(0xB) RPC calls over a sealed pipe.

.TP
.B --kerberos
.TP
.B -k
Specify whether to force Kerberos (set to yes), not use Kerberos (set to no). If you omit this option,
Kerberos will be used where practical.

.TP
.B --realm REALM
.TP
.B -R
Set the Windows realm

.TP
.B --username
.TP
.B -u
Set the username to use to log on the Exchange server.

.TP
.B --password
.TP
.B -p
Set the password corresponding to the username described above.

.TP
.B --language
.TP
.B -C

Specify the language to use with the account. When specifying the
name, you use the name of the language returned within the list
--listlangs option displays. See the --listlangs option for how to
obtain the full list of languages. The default language code is the
system one stored within the LC_CTYPE environment variable.

.TP
.B --pattern
.TP
.B -s
Set a username string pattern mapiprofile should use rather than the
default username. This option is used during mapi profile creation.

.TP
.B --nopass
Do not save password in the profile.

.TP
.B --attr VALUE
.TP
.B -a
Print an attribute value.

.TP
.B --dump-data
Dump the hex data.

.TP
.B --debuglevel LEVEL
.TP
.B -d
Set the debug level.

.TP
.B --getfqdn
Returns the DNS fully qualified domain name of the NSPI server matching the legacyDN.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B Create a blank MAPI profile database:
.nf
mapiprofile --database=/tmp/profiles2.ldb --ldif=/usr/local/samba/share/setup --newdb
.fi

.B Create a new profile using NTLMSSP authentication:
.nf
mapiprofile --database=/tmp/profiles.ldb --profile=jkerihuel
     --username=jkerihuel --password=secret --language=French\\ \\(France\\)
     --address=192.168.194.22 --workstation=LOCALHOST --domain=OPENCHANGE 
     --create
Profile jkerihuel completed and added to database /tmp/profiles.ldb.
Note that this account will use French.
.fi

.B Create a new profile using Kerberos authentication:
.nf
mapiprofile --database=/tmp/profiles.ldb --profile=jkerihuel
     --username=jkerihuel --password=secret --language=French\\ \\(France\\)
     --address=exchange.openchange.local --domain=OPENCHANGE
     --realm=OPENCHANGE.LOCAL --create
.fi


.B Delete a profile:
.nf
mapiprofile --database=/tmp/profiles.ldb --profile=jkerihuel --delete
Profile jkerihuel deleted from database /tmp/profiles.ldb
.fi

.B List profiles:
.nf
mapiprofile --database=/tmp/profiles.ldb --list
We have 2 profiles in the database:
        Profile = exchange-2000
        Profile = jkerihuel
.fi

.B Dump a profile:
.nf
mapiprofile --database=/tmp/profiles.ldb --profile=jkerihuel --dump
Profile: jkerihuel
	username       == jkerihuel
	password       == secret
	mailbox        == /o=First Organization/ou=First Administrative Group/cn=Recipients/cn=jkerihuel
	workstation    == LOCALHOST
	domain         == OPENCHANGE
	server         == exchange.openchange.local
.fi

.B Dump profile attribute:
.nf
mapiprofile --database=/tmp/profiles.ldb --profile=jkerihuel --attr=HomeMDB
Profile jkerihuel: HomeMDB = /o=First Organization/ou=First Administrative Group/cn=Configuration/cn=Servers/cn=EXCHANGE2000
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>

Brad Hards <bradh at openchange dot org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
The codes for various languages can be found in many places, including
the Windows Language Code Identifier (LCID) Reference.

