.\" OpenChange Project Tools Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2008, 2010 Brad Hards
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii mapitest.1
.\"
.TH MAPITEST 1 2013-01-24 "OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT" "OpenChange Users' Manual"

.SH NAME
mapitest \- OpenChange torture test utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
mapitest [-?|--help] [--usage] [-f|--database=STRING] [-p|--profile=STRING]
  [-p|--password=STRING] [--confidential] [--color] [--subunit]
  [-o|--outfile=STRING] [--mapi-calls=STRING] [--list-all] [--no-server]
  [--dump-data] [-d|--debuglevel=STRING]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
mapitest is a test harness / utility used for verifying correct operation
of various ExchangeRPC calls / MAPI functions provided by the OpenChange
MAPI libraries.

mapitest is not normally required by users, but you may be asked to provide
the output of mapitest for some kinds of bug investigations.

Note that mapitest performs a lot of transactions, including deleting folders
and messages. Unless you're very familiar with mapitest, we recommend only
using it with a test account.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B --database
.TP
.B -f
Set the path to the profile database to use

.TP
.B --profile
.TP
.B -p
Set the profile to use. If no profile is specified, mapitest tries
to retrieve the default profile in the database. If no default profile
has been set, mapitest returns 
.B MAPI_E_NOT_FOUND .

.TP
.B --password
.TP
.B -P
Specify the password for the profile to use. This can be omitted if the
password is stored in the profile.

.TP
.B --confidential
Remove any sensitive data from the report.

.TP
.B --color
Use colors to indicate the results of each operation.

.TP
.B --subunit
Produce output in subunit protocol format, instead of the normal text
output. This disables colored output. Note that availability of this
option depends on suitable libraries being available at build time, so
check availability before relying on this.

.TP
.B --outfile
.TP
.B -o
Redirect the output of the tests to a file. The filename must be specified
as the argument to this option.

.TP
.B --mapi-calls
Run a specific test. The name of the test must be specified as the argument
to this option. See the --list-all option to obtain the name of the test.
This can be specified more than once in order to run a subset of tests.
This can also be used to run a "suite" of tests, by appending "-ALL" to
the name of the suite.

.TP
.B --list-all
Provide a list of all test suites and test names, along with a description
of the test. No tests will be run.

.TP
.B --no-server
Only run tests that do not require a server connection. This is the default
if a connection to the server cannot be established.

.TP
.B --dump-data
Dump the hex data. This is only required for debugging or educational purposes.

.TP
.B --debuglevel
.TP
.B -d
Set the debug level.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B Run all tests
.nf
mapitest
.fi

.B Only run two specific tests
.nf
mapitest --mapi-calls=NOSERVER-SROWSET --mapi-calls=OXCPRPT-GET-PROPS
.fi

.B Run all the NSPI tests
.nf
mapitest --mapi-calls=NSPI-ALL
.fi

.SH REMARKS
If you are using the default profile database path and have set a
default profile (using
.B mapiprofile --profile=profile_name -S
) you do not need to specify these parameters on the command line.

.SH AUTHOR
mapitest was written by Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
with contributions from other OpenChange developers.

This man page was written by Brad Hards <bradh at openchange dot org>
