.\" OpenChange Project Tools Man Pages
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2007 Julien Kerihuel;
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the OpenChange and Samba4 libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii openchangepfadmin.1
.\"
.TH OPENCHANGEPFADMIN 1 2013-01-24 "OpenChange 2.0 QUADRANT" "OpenChange Users' Manual"

.SH NAME
openchangepfadmin \- Exchange users and Public Folder administration tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
openchangepfadmin [-?] [-?|--help] [--usage] [-f|--database PATH] [-p|--profile PROFILE]
    [-P|--password PASSWORD] [--apassword=PASSWORD] [--adesc=DESCRIPTION] [--acomment=COMMENT]
    [--afullname=NAME] [--list] [--mkdir] [--rmdir] [--comment=COMMENT] [--dirclass=CLASS]
    [--adduser=USERNAME] [--rmuser=USERNAME] [--addright=RIGHT] [--rmright] [--modright=RIGHT]
    [--debuglevel=LEVEL] [--dump-data] [--folder=FOLDER] [--username=USERNAME]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
openchangepfadmin is a administrative command line tool designed to
facilitate user management related operations (create, delete, modify)
on a remote Exchange server and manage public folder store and
permissions.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B --adduser=USERNAME
Create a Exchange user with the username specified by USERNAME

.TP
.B --rmuser=USERNAME
Delete the Exchange user account specified by USERNAME

.TP
.B --list
List Public Folder hierarchy (IPM_SUBTREE)

.TP
.B --mkdir
Create a folder in the Public Folder store

.TP
.B --rmdir
Delete a folder in the Public Folder store

.TP
.B --addright=RIGHT
Add permission and roles for a user on a Public Folder directory. 

.TP
.B --modright=RIGHT
Modify permissions and roles for a user on a Public Folder directory

.TP
.B --rmright
Delete permissions and roles for a specific user


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B --database=DATABASE
.TP
.B -f
Set the MAPI profile database. If no database is specified, then
openchangeclient tries to load the default one:
.B $HOME/.openchange/profiles.ldb

.TP
.B --profile=PROFILE
.TP
.B -p
Set the profile to use. If a profile is not specified, and one of the
profiles has been set as the default in the profile database (for
example, using mapiprofile -S), then that default profile will be
used.

.TP
.B --password
.TP
.B -P
Set the password for the profile to use. This can be omitted if the
password is stored in the profile.

.TP
.B --apassword=PASSWORD
Define the password to set for the user specified with --adduser. If
no password is explicitely supplied, openchangepfadmin will arbitrary
set a random one.

.TP
.B --adesc=DESCRIPTION
This command can only be used with --adduser and specifies a
description for this account

.TP
.B --acomment=COMMENT
This command can only be used with --adduser and specifies a comment
for this account.

.TP
.B --afullname=NAME
This command can only be used with --adduser and specifies the user
full name for this account.

.TP
.B --comment=COMMENT
This command can only be used with --mkdir and specifies a comment for
the folder.

.TP
.B --dirclass=CLASS
This command can only be used with --mkdir and specifies the container
class of the directory we want to create. Possible values are:
IPF.Appointment, IPF.Contact, IPF.Journal, IPF.Note, IPF.StickyNote,
IPF.Task, IPF.Post

.TP
.B --folder=FOLDER
This command can only be used with --addright, --modright and
--rmright. Specify the folder where permissions and roles have to be
changed.

.TP
.B --username=USERNAME
This command can only be used with --addright, --modright and
--rmright. Specify the username we want to change permissions and
roles for.

.TP
.B --dump-data
Dump the hex data. This is only required for debugging or educational purposes.

.TP
.B --debuglevel LEVEL
.TP
.B -d
Set the debug level.

.SH EXAMPLES

.B Creating user
.nf
openchangepfadmin --adduser=linuxowner --apassword=linuxowner   \\
                    --adesc="Linux Owner Test account"          \\
		    --afullname="Linux Owner"
    mapiadmin_user_add       : MAPI_E_SUCCESS (0x0)
username: linuxowner
password: linuxowner
.fi

Creates a user account with username and password set to linuxowner.

.B Deleting user:
.nf
openchangepfadmin --rmuser=linuxowner
    mapiadmin_user_del       : MAPI_E_SUCCESS (0x0)
.fi

.B Create Public Folder:
.nf
openchangepfadmin --mkdir --folder=public_events --dirclass=IPF.Appointment
.fi

Creates a folder in the Public Folder store named public_events with a
container class set to Appointment. This folder will display calendar
items.

.B Delete Public Folder:
.nf
openchangepfadmin --rmdir --folder=public_events
.fi

.B List Public Folder hierarchy:
.nf
openchangepfadmin --list
.fi

.B Add Permission:
.nf
openchangepfadmin --username=linuxowner --folder=public_events \\
                    --addright=RoleOwner
Permission RoleOwner added for linuxowner on folder public_events
.fi

.B Modify Permission
.nf
openchangepfadmin --username=Anonymous --folder=public_events \\
  		    --modright=RoleNone
Permission changed to RoleNone for Anonymous on folder appointment
.fi

Note that you can only change permissions for a user already listed in
the ACL table.

.SH NOTE
Permissions and Roles possible values are:
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsNone                    
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsReadItems               
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsCreateItems             
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsEditOwn                 
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsDeleteOwn               
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsEditAll
.IP "\(bu" 2    
RightsDeleteAll
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsCreateSubfolders
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsFolderOwner
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsFolderContact
.IP "\(bu" 2
RoleNone
.IP "\(bu" 2
RoleReviewer
.IP "\(bu" 2
RoleContributor
.IP "\(bu" 2
RoleNoneditingAuthor
.IP "\(bu" 2
RoleAuthor
.IP "\(bu" 2
RoleEditor
.IP "\(bu" 2
RolePublishAuthor
.IP "\(bu" 2
RolePublishEditor
.IP "\(bu" 2
RightsAll
.IP "\(bu" 2
RoleOwner			

.SH SEE ALSO
AddUserPermission, ModifyUserPermission, RemoveUserPermission

.SH AUTHOR
Julien Kerihuel <j.kerihuel at openchange dot org>
